#summary Agendas for the Spring 2008 semester

= Details =

==Agenda: Jan. 17th==
 * Introduce each other
 * Brainstorm name
 * Set up Subversion hosting on Google Code
 * Research WAV format
 * Write agenda for next week

==Agenda: Jan. 22nd==
 * Learn more about WAV format
 * Design/code style sheets (CodeStyleSheets)
 * Source-code control procedures (SourceCodeControlProcedures)
 * Defect tracking procedures (DefectProcedures)
 * test procedures (TestProcedures)
 * PROBE estimate (ProbeEstimate)
 * Make agenda for next meeting

==Agenda: Jan 24th==
 * Create WAV format page (WavFormat)
 * Do PROBE estimate (ProbeEstimate)
 * Make agenda for next meeting

==Agenda: Jan 29th==
 * Learn about WAV data format.
 * Work on reading in and parsing the WAV file.
 * Make agenda for next meeting.

==Agenda: Jan 31st==
 * Continue learing about WAV data format.
 * Work on t4
 * Make agenda for next meeting.

==Agenda: Feb 5th==
 * Listen to John Barr, IBM

==Agenda: Feb 7th==
 * Progress Report Meeting with Dr. Page
 * Make agenda for next meeting

==Agenda: Feb 12==
 * Inspection checklist
 * Annotate conceptual design
 * List written defects from design
 * Make agenda for next meeting

==Agenda: Feb 15==
 * Work on t4
 * Finalize design
 * Adjust PSP PROBE Estimate
 * Make agenda for next meeting

==Agenda: Feb 19==
 * Turn in t4
 * Present t5
 * Listen to other groups present t5
 * Make agenda for next meeting

==Agenda: Feb 21==
 * Fill this in
 * Make agenda for next meeting

==Agenda: Feb 26==
 * Set completion goals for meeting before Spring Break
 * Assignments
 * Progress Reports
 * Make agenda for next meeting

==Agenda: Feb 28==
 * Meet with Dr. Page for Progress Reports
 * Make agenda for next meeting